this myth is something I've always
wondered myself before I even looked
into all these various theories and such
the very first Pokemon game ever played
was crystal version of the second
generation you play as gold or Chris if
you're a girl and have adventures all
over the new region of Johto you throw
at the researching Team Rocket and
battled the Pokemon League after
defeating the champion you get to return
to Kanto region to challenge those gym
leaders when you've defeated them all
return to Pallet Town to see where it
all started Professor Oak marvels near
successes and tells you about mount
Silver the highest point in Johto were
only the best of the best may enter
before you journey up the mountain stop
by a Reds old place and speak to his
mother she tells who she hasn't heard
from her son in a long time and there's
been no indications that he's okay she
shakes these thoughts and tells herself
that he's alright upon reaching the top
of mount silver you see a familiar
figure standing at the summit you
cautiously approach him and talk to him
he turns around and you see the former
champion red he doesn't say a word and
that a battle initiates you the current
champion engaged the greatest trainer in
history in an epic clash of the titans
following your gruesome battle rat again
doesn't say a single word
then suddenly he disappears you're left
standing alone and then the end credits
play no congratulations
no humbling speech no emotion red simply
vanishes why does he do this well
because he is a ghost you just fought
his disembodied spirit and his Pokemon
her fusil Bandhan their master
but how did red die and why is he still
there after defeating his rival and
being entered into the Hall of Fame and
became power-hungry and aspired to be
the greatest trainer of all time to
ensure this he ascended mount silver to
train in solitude he never returned to
his home in pallet and the residents
began to worry blue replacing the
corrupt Giovanni as the Viridian City
Gym Leader was often away from his post
to search for his childhood companion he
knew that red wouldn't return home
unless somebody was able to defeat him
and blue was the only one in the land
who could come close to matching his
power when he received word that there
was a volcanic eruption cinnabar blue
thinking red might be their fluted
seemed to search the ruins for him and
try to bring him home rather than
finding red he comes across gold blue
felt that nobody from Giotto could match
the strength of a canto trainer and
dismissed the young champion unable to
locate red blue returned to his gym in
Viridian to wait for any new leads a
short time later gold arrives at the gym
and displays all 15 badges that he's
earned blue was still unsure if he could
stand up to red so he accepted his
challenge and was easily handled by gold
blue was caught by surprise and realizes
that maybe this stranger from Giotto
could scale mount silver and convince
red to return something he was never
able to do however the winters on mount
Silver were harsh and unforgiving too
stubborn to leave his training spot on
the peak red and his team remained there
however red died one day before he could
relay a message to pallet that he needed
help being as loyal as they were his
team stayed by his side red spirit
refused to leave until he could be
defeated because only then could his
spirit finally rest being only a ghost
red was unable to talk and could only
watch his Gold's Pokemon picked off his
own one by one with his final Pokemon
fainted
Red's ghost finally found peace and
quietly left the mountain I find this
theory to be believable but still easily
refuted
there are several clues that point
towards red still being alive for one
when the first generation of games came
to America red has an SNES in his room
which coincides with the time period in
which two games were released in gold
silver crystal vision n64 in his room
this means that red must have been alive
at the time the n64 debut which is not
too far from the release date of gold
and silver versions secondly mount
silver summit a snow capped your Fred
actually died there his body would have
still been present because the corpse
cannot decay that quickly in that
environment a Reds body was never found
on the summit even if you search for it
in a hidden item using the item finder
nope nothing thirdly red never spoke
when he was alive in the first
generation of games to begin with we
don't explicitly get confirmation that
red says a single word
what about when people ask for Reds name
when explanation is that red is a mute
and can only communicate by either using
sign language or writing out his answers
on paper which would explain why it
takes two full lines of cha-cha-cha-cha
to express the simple answer RIT is
using all that time to write out his
responses he spoke them on feet off his
vibes to know what attack to use and so
forth based on the extremely close bond
that they share read says nothing too
cold because he no longer has a way to
communicate with Gould who we can assume
does not comprehend sign language or
read run out of paper whatever
why does red suddenly disappear well
with nothing to say red uses an escape
rope to return to the base of the
mountain and goes home with all the
circumstantial evidence in mind Pokemon
myth busted